OSHA 29 CFR 1910.304 - Wiring design and protection.
Occupational Safety and Health Standards, Subpart S - Electrical
Source: U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (public domain, U.S. federal regulation)

1910.304(a) Use and identification of grounded and grounding conductors.

1910.304(a)(1) Identification of conductors. A conductor used as a grounded conductor shall be identifiable and distinguishable from all other conductors. A conductor used as an equipment grounding conductor shall be identifiable and distinguishable from all other conductors.

1910.304(a)(2) Polarity of connections. No grounded conductor may be attached to any terminal or lead so as to reverse designated polarity.

1910.304(a)(3) Use of grounding terminals and devices. A grounding terminal or grounding-type device on a receptacle, cord connector, or attachment plug may not be used for purposes other than grounding.

1910.304(b) Branch circuits.

1910.304(b)(1) Identification of multiwire branch circuits. Where more than one nominal voltage system exists in a building containing multiwire branch circuits, each ungrounded conductor of a multiwire branch circuit, where accessible, shall be identified by phase and system. The means of identification shall be permanently posted at each branch-circuit panelboard.

1910.304(b)(2) Receptacles and cord connectors. Receptacles installed on 15- and 20-ampere branch circuits shall be of the grounding type except as permitted for replacement receptacles. Grounding-type receptacles shall be installed only on circuits of the voltage class and current for which they are rated, except as provided in Table S-4 and Table S-5. Receptacles and cord connectors having grounding contacts shall have those contacts effectively grounded, except for receptacles mounted on portable and vehicle-mounted generators, and replacement receptacles installed under the replacement provisions below.

Replacement of receptacles shall comply with the following requirements: where a grounding means exists in the receptacle enclosure or a grounding conductor is installed, grounding-type receptacles shall be used and shall be connected to the grounding means or conductor. Ground-fault circuit-interrupter protected receptacles shall be provided where replacements are made at receptacle outlets that are required to be so protected elsewhere in this subpart. Where a grounding means does not exist in the receptacle enclosure, a nongrounding-type receptacle may be replaced with another nongrounding-type receptacle, or with a ground-fault circuit-interrupter-type receptacle marked "No Equipment Ground," or with a grounding-type receptacle supplied through a ground-fault circuit-interrupter and marked "GFCI Protected" and "No Equipment Ground."

1910.304(b)(3) Ground-fault circuit interrupter protection for personnel. All 125-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere receptacles installed in bathrooms or on rooftops shall have ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel. For temporary wiring installations used during construction-like activities, all 125-volt, single-phase, 15-, 20-, and 30-ampere receptacle outlets that are not part of the permanent wiring of the building or structure and that are in use by personnel shall have ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel. Where ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection is not available for other receptacle types, the employer shall establish and implement an assured equipment grounding conductor program with a written description, a designated competent person, daily visual inspection before use, continuity testing of equipment grounding conductors before first use and at intervals not exceeding 3 months (6 months for fixed cord sets and receptacles), and a maintained test record.

1910.304(b)(4) Outlet devices. Outlet devices shall have an ampere rating not less than the load to be served. Where connected to a branch circuit having a rating in excess of 20 amperes, lampholders shall be of the heavy-duty type, rated not less than 660 watts if of the admedium type and not less than 750 watts if of any other type. A single receptacle installed on an individual branch circuit shall have an ampere rating of not less than that of the branch circuit. Where connected to a branch circuit supplying two or more receptacles, a receptacle may not supply a total cord- and plug-connected load in excess of the maximum specified in Table S-4.

Table S-4 - Maximum Cord- and Plug-Connected Load to Receptacle:
Circuit rating 15 or 20 amperes -> Receptacle rating 15 amperes -> Maximum load 12 amperes.
Circuit rating 20 amperes -> Receptacle rating 20 amperes -> Maximum load 16 amperes.
Circuit rating 30 amperes -> Receptacle rating 30 amperes -> Maximum load 24 amperes.

Table S-5 - Receptacle Ratings for Various Size Circuits:
Circuit rating 15 amperes -> Receptacle rating not over 15 amperes.
Circuit rating 20 amperes -> Receptacle rating 15 or 20 amperes.
Circuit rating 30 amperes -> Receptacle rating 30 amperes.
Circuit rating 40 amperes -> Receptacle rating 40 or 50 amperes.
Circuit rating 50 amperes -> Receptacle rating 50 amperes.

1910.304(b)(5) Cord connections. A receptacle outlet shall be installed wherever flexible cords with attachment plugs are used. Where flexible cords are permitted to be permanently connected, receptacles may be omitted.

1910.304(c) Outside conductors, 600 volts, nominal, or less. These requirements apply to branch-circuit, feeder, and service conductors rated 600 volts, nominal, or less and run outdoors as open conductors.

1910.304(c)(1) Conductors on poles. Conductors on poles shall have a separation of not less than 305 mm (1.0 ft) where not placed on racks or brackets. Required horizontal climbing space: power conductors below communication conductors, 762 mm (30 in.); power conductors alone or above communication conductors at 300 volts or less, 610 mm (24 in.); power conductors alone or above communication conductors over 300 volts, 762 mm (30 in.); communication conductors below power conductors, same as power conductors; communication conductors alone, no requirement.

1910.304(c)(2) Clearance from ground. Open conductors, open multiconductor cables, and service-drop conductors of not over 600 volts, nominal, shall conform to the minimum clearances specified in Table S-6. For installations built on or after August 13, 2007: 3.05 m (10.0 ft) clearance applies where voltage to ground is under 150 V, above finished grade or sidewalks or platforms from which they might be reached. 3.66 m (12.0 ft) clearance applies for 300 V or less over residential property, driveways, or commercial areas subject to pedestrian or non-truck vehicular traffic. 4.57 m (15.0 ft) clearance applies for 301 to 600 V in those same area types. 5.49 m (18.0 ft) clearance applies for under 600 V over public streets, alleys, roads, driveways, and areas subject to truck traffic.

1910.304(c)(3) Clearance from building openings. Service conductors installed as open conductors or multiconductor cable without an overall outer jacket shall have a clearance of not less than 914 mm (3.0 ft) from windows designed to be opened, doors, porches, balconies, ladders, stairs, and fire escapes. Conductors running above the top level of a window may be less than 914 mm (3.0 ft) from the window. Overhead service conductors may not be installed beneath openings through which materials may be moved, and may not obstruct entrance to such building openings.

1910.304(c)(4) Above roofs. Overhead spans of open conductors and open multiconductor cables shall have a vertical clearance of not less than 2.44 m (8.0 ft) above the roof surface, maintained for a distance not less than 914 mm (3.0 ft) in all directions from the edge of the roof. A reduction in clearance to 914 mm (3.0 ft) is permitted where the voltage between conductors does not exceed 300 and the roof has a slope of 102 mm (4 in.) in 305 mm (12 in.) or greater. A reduction to not less than 457 mm (18 in.) is permitted above only the overhanging portion of the roof where voltage does not exceed 300, the conductors do not pass above the roof overhang for more than 1.83 m (6.0 ft) or 1.22 m (4.0 ft) horizontally, and the conductors are terminated at a through-the-roof raceway or approved support.

1910.304(d) Location of outdoor lamps. Lamps for outdoor lighting shall be located below all energized conductors, transformers, or other electric equipment, unless such equipment is controlled by a disconnecting means that can be locked in the open position, or unless adequate clearances or other safeguards are provided for relamping operations.

1910.304(e) Services.

1910.304(e)(1) Disconnecting means. Means shall be provided to disconnect all conductors in a building or other structure from the service-entrance conductors. The service disconnecting means shall plainly indicate whether it is in the open or closed position and shall be installed at a readily accessible location nearest the point of entrance of the service-entrance conductors. Each service disconnecting means shall simultaneously disconnect all ungrounded conductors, and shall be suitable for the prevailing conditions.

1910.304(e)(2) Services over 600 volts, nominal. Service-entrance conductors installed as open wires shall be guarded to make them accessible only to qualified persons. Signs warning of high voltage shall be posted where unqualified employees might come in contact with live parts.

1910.304(f) Overcurrent protection.

1910.304(f)(1) 600 volts, nominal, or less. Conductors and equipment shall be protected from overcurrent in accordance with their ability to safely conduct current. Except for motor running overload protection, overcurrent devices may not interrupt the continuity of the grounded conductor unless all conductors of the circuit are opened simultaneously. A disconnecting means shall be provided on the supply side of all fuses in circuits over 150 volts to ground and cartridge fuses in circuits of any voltage where accessible to other than qualified persons, so that each individual circuit containing fuses can be independently disconnected from the source of power. Overcurrent devices shall be readily accessible to each employee or authorized building management personnel, and may not be located where they will be exposed to physical damage or in the vicinity of easily ignitable material. Fuses and circuit breakers shall be so located or shielded that employees will not be burned or otherwise injured by their operation. Circuit breakers shall clearly indicate whether they are in the open (off) or closed (on) position. Where circuit breaker handles on switchboards are operated vertically, the up position of the handle shall be the closed (on) position. Circuit breakers used as switches in 120-volt and 277-volt fluorescent lighting circuits shall be listed and marked "SWD." A circuit breaker with a straight voltage rating, such as 240 V or 480 V, may only be installed in a circuit in which the nominal voltage between any two conductors does not exceed the circuit breaker's voltage rating.

1910.304(f)(2) Feeders and branch circuits over 600 volts, nominal. Feeder and branch-circuit conductors shall have overcurrent protection in each ungrounded conductor located at the point where the conductor receives its supply, or at a location determined under engineering supervision. Circuit breakers used for overcurrent protection of three-phase circuits shall have a minimum of three overcurrent relays operated from three current transformers. Each protective device shall be capable of detecting and interrupting all values of current that can occur at its location in excess of its trip setting or melting point. The operating time of the protective device, the available short-circuit current, and the conductor used shall be coordinated to prevent damaging or dangerous temperatures in conductors or conductor insulation under short-circuit conditions.

For feeders specifically: the continuous ampere rating of a fuse may not exceed three times the ampacity of the conductors. The long-time trip element setting of a breaker, or the minimum trip setting of an electronically actuated fuse, may not exceed six times the ampacity of the conductor. For fire pumps, conductors may be protected for short circuit only. Conductors tapped to a feeder may be protected by the feeder overcurrent device where that overcurrent device also protects the tap conductor.

1910.304(g) Grounding.

1910.304(g)(1) Systems to be grounded. All 3-wire dc systems shall have their neutral conductor grounded. Two-wire dc systems operating at over 50 volts through 300 volts between conductors shall be grounded unless they supply only industrial equipment in limited areas with a ground detector, are rectifier-derived from a compliant ac system, or are fire-alarm circuits with a maximum current of 0.030 amperes. AC circuits of less than 50 volts shall be grounded if installed as overhead conductors outside buildings, or if supplied by transformers whose primary supply system is ungrounded or exceeds 150 volts to ground. AC systems of 50 volts to 1000 volts shall generally be grounded if the maximum voltage to ground on the ungrounded conductors can be kept at or below 150 volts, or if the system is a three-phase four-wire wye or delta system using the neutral or midpoint as a circuit conductor, or if a service conductor is uninsulated. Certain systems (industrial melting/refining furnaces, rectifiers for adjustable-speed industrial drives, qualifying separately derived control-circuit systems, isolated power systems in health care facilities, and certain high-impedance grounded neutral systems from 480-1000 volts under specific supervision and monitoring conditions) are not required to be grounded.

1910.304(g)(2) Conductor to be grounded. One conductor of a single-phase, two-wire system shall be grounded. The neutral conductor of a single-phase, three-wire system shall be grounded. The common conductor of a multiphase system having one wire common to all phases shall be grounded. One phase conductor of a multiphase system where one phase is grounded shall be grounded. The neutral conductor of a multiphase system in which one phase is used as a neutral conductor shall be grounded.

1910.304(g)(3) Portable and vehicle-mounted generators. The frame of a portable generator need not be grounded and may serve as the grounding electrode for a system it supplies, provided the generator supplies only equipment mounted on it (or cord- and plug-connected equipment through its own receptacles) and the noncurrent-carrying metal parts of that equipment are bonded to the generator frame. Similar provisions apply to vehicle-mounted generators, with the generator frame bonded to the vehicle frame.

1910.304(g)(4) Grounding connections. For a grounded system, a grounding electrode conductor shall be used to connect both the equipment grounding conductor and the grounded circuit conductor to the grounding electrode, connected on the supply side of the service disconnecting means (or the system disconnecting means/overcurrent devices for separately derived systems). For an ungrounded service-supplied system, the equipment grounding conductor shall be connected to the grounding electrode conductor at the service equipment.

1910.304(g)(5) Grounding path. The path to ground from circuits, equipment, and enclosures shall be permanent, continuous, and effective.

1910.304(g)(6) Supports, enclosures, and equipment to be grounded. Metal cable trays, metal raceways, and metal enclosures for conductors shall be grounded, with limited exceptions for protective sleeves and certain short (under 7.62 m / 25 ft), guarded, contact-free enclosures added to existing open-wire, knob-and-tube, or nonmetallic-sheathed cable installations. Metal enclosures for service equipment shall be grounded. Frames of electric ranges, wall-mounted ovens, counter-mounted cooking units, clothes dryers, and their associated metal outlet or junction boxes shall be grounded. Exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts of fixed equipment that may become energized shall generally be grounded if within 2.44 m (8 ft) vertically or 1.52 m (5 ft) horizontally of ground or grounded metal objects and subject to employee contact, if in a wet or damp location, if in electrical contact with metal, if in a hazardous (classified) location, if supplied by a metal-clad/sheathed or grounded metal raceway wiring method, or if any terminal operates at over 150 volts to ground. Certain fixed equipment (qualified-person-only switch/breaker enclosures, permanently insulated electrically heated appliances, elevated pole-mounted distribution apparatus above 2.44 m / 8.0 ft, and double-insulated listed equipment) need not be grounded. Exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts of cord- and plug-connected equipment that may become energized shall be grounded if in hazardous locations, if operated at over 150 volts to ground, or if the equipment is of specific types including refrigerators, freezers, air conditioners, clothes-washing/drying and dishwashing machines, sump pumps, hand-held or stationary motor-operated tools, certain motor-operated outdoor appliances, equipment used in damp or wet locations, portable/mobile X-ray equipment, and portable hand lamps. Tools used in wet and conductive locations supplied through an isolating transformer with an ungrounded secondary of not over 50 volts, and listed/labeled portable tools and appliances protected by an approved system of double insulation, need not be grounded.

1910.304(g)(7) Nonelectrical equipment. The metal parts of the following nonelectrical equipment shall be grounded: frames and tracks of electrically operated cranes and hoists; frames of nonelectrically driven elevator cars to which electric conductors are attached; hand-operated metal shifting ropes or cables of electric elevators; and metal partitions, grill work, and similar metal enclosures around equipment of over 750 volts between conductors.

1910.304(g)(8) Methods of grounding fixed equipment. Noncurrent-carrying metal parts of fixed equipment, if required to be grounded, shall be grounded by an equipment grounding conductor that is contained within the same raceway, cable, or cord, or that runs with or encloses the circuit conductors (for dc circuits only, the equipment grounding conductor may run separately). Electric equipment is considered effectively grounded if secured to, and in electrical contact with, a grounded metal rack or structure provided for its support.

1910.304(g)(9) Grounding of systems and circuits of 1000 volts and over (high voltage). Systems supplying portable or mobile high voltage equipment shall have their neutral grounded through an impedance (with a derived neutral if delta-connected). Exposed noncurrent-carrying metal parts of such portable and mobile equipment shall be connected by an equipment grounding conductor to the point at which the system neutral impedance is grounded. Ground-fault detection and relaying shall be provided to automatically deenergize any high voltage system component that develops a ground fault, and equipment grounding conductor continuity shall be continuously monitored so as to automatically deenergize the high voltage feeder upon loss of that continuity. The grounding electrode for the portable equipment system neutral impedance shall be isolated from and separated in the ground by at least 6.1 m (20.0 ft) from any other system or equipment grounding electrode, with no direct connection between the grounding electrodes. All noncurrent-carrying metal parts of portable and fixed high voltage equipment, including associated fences, housings, enclosures, and supporting structures, shall be grounded, except equipment guarded by location and isolated from ground, and pole-mounted distribution apparatus above 2.44 m (8.0 ft).

[Source citations: 46 FR 4056, Jan. 16, 1981; 46 FR 40185, Aug. 7, 1981, as amended at 55 FR 32015, Aug. 6, 1990; 72 FR 7195, Feb. 14, 2007; 73 FR 64205, Oct. 29, 2008]
